we have all been waiting for the cooling
of Canada's real estate market when oil
prices took a dive oil based areas of
Alberta immediately saw a huge
correction today we have extraordinary
prices in Toronto Vancouver and others
and it would seem nearly impossible to
stop today we see sales dropping
massively and we anticipate the Bank of
Canada reducing liquidity to stop
Fanning the flames that have made real
estate completely unaffordable to many
you came here for the truth today we are
going to look at real estate prices in
Canada why they have risen so high and
how this is all coming down let's look
at this Toronto home sales drop 40
percent compared to a year ago this is
the biggest drop since the financial
crisis now Canadian real estate saw this
sales drop during the financial crisis
but they weren't hit nearly as hard as
what happened in the US it was a little
bump in the road and things continued to
rise
why was that well hear me out for just a
second and I'll get it to that point
average selling price for all homes in
the GTA was 746 thousand dollars we are
talking about prices that are
unaffordable to a large percentage of
the population within the GTA many
people can't afford that unless they go
to an alternative mortgage lender who is
able to lend them a lot of money and it
will probably not end too well once
interest rates rise looking at this we
need to realize that it's at levels that
are not sustainable it's okay if prices
continue to rise because our wages are
continuing to rise but last time I
checked our wages weren't rising let's
look at this markets have poor chances
on a rate hike from the Bank of Canada
in October at 70% so just recently the
Bank of Canada increased interest rates
a small amount should they persist and
increase interest rates this will
completely eviscerate the Canadian real
estate market the market just like every
other
a market stock market and everything
else runs on debt
it runs on a small percentage of real
wealth and the rest of it is all
fictional look at how stocks are running
off of margin real estate is running off
of basically the banks lending to people
and it's all a matter of pay a small
percentage now pay the rest later and
people do that buying things that you
know big-box stores and everything else
you think you own it but ultimately the
bank or the lender owns it and so we had
this new sort of rental type economy
that's existing doesn't matter it's
still pushing the prices upward the
problem is that when they come down they
fall very very hard it isn't possible to
withstand a significant increase in
interest rates without causing a
collapse it's just not possible it isn't
possible because many people are able to
buy homes today because of interest
rates being historically near low very
low at this time when you look at the
prices or the interest rates that were
in existence for the past let's say
since 1980 you can see that trend
declining year after year after year and
that allows people to borrow more and
more money and it gives them no
incentive to save because they're
figuring why am I going to put my money
in a savings account when I can simply
invest that into my home into something
else and that would be able to basically
make a lot more return and that's the
way people have seen it so far but what
happens just what happens if prices come
down 25 50 percent what are we going to
experience well many people would
completely be wiped out as a result of
that many people in fact even if it's
just 25 percent correction which is
extremely possible well that's never
going to happen if you ask the Bank of
Canada they're going to fix it don't
worry about it
you ask the government don't worry
obadah you ask the only different boards
that exist that protect the real estate
and try to continue to push the real
estate prices higher a lobby the
government they will tell you that
nothing will ever happen well it isn't a
bizarre or strange occurrence for there
to be crashes it happens it happens now
it doesn't happen very very hard in many
cases except when the prices rise too
far that's the way it is the market will
always find its balance every market
always find its balance even when you
try to manipulate it the price will come
down so dramatically downward and then
they can fix it up after and try to
bring it back to another level but it
always finds its own balance that's the
way it is you can print and print and
print but has that sort of beach ball
underwater effect you push it down the
harder you push down the harder it's
going to push itself back up that's the
way this all works just be prepared for
interest rates that is the number one it
is the primary indicator of the Canadian
real estate market right now in the
Toronto area the price of a benchmark
detached home has fallen 8 percent from
April's peak that the client has taken
place more quickly than the drop
recorded in Vancouver area market after
the BC government introduced attacks
what happened well in Vancouver BC they
decided to impose a 15% foreign buyers
tax they're saying look the foreign
buyers are pushing the market up will
impose a 15% tax to give them less of an
incentive to buy here so what happened
well if you want to know what happened
with that just hang on just just a few
minutes ok they're suggesting that you
know this is little bump in the road
have no fear everything is going to be
ok
yet again all right let's look at this
benchmark prices drop $37,000 Toronto
real estate prices are losing ground and
fast the composit benchmark prices
across the TREB fell seven to seven
hundred seventy two thousand an 18%
increase from the same time last year
thirty
$7,000 lower than it was last month so
it's a significant number
although the prices have risen
dramatically we need to also remember
that that it's not at a low level and
thinking further we're talking about it
being at the peak so we have to look at
and time it and realize where exactly is
the peak and where is it going how far
is it going and we need to be observing
this there's more in here about the
numbers that it gets into but
essentially I want to note that the
prices have risen too far too fast and
as a result we always see every single
time we see crashes coming down much
much faster than they rose up at the
first place look at this
Toronto average price the composite here
the average price has risen
year-over-year this is going back from
the end of 2014 and you'll see that yes
despite the fact that there have been
bumps along the way you look at this
another point that I want to make is the
fact that it has come down significantly
in the past few months that is something
that we need to look at but again prices
had come up you know year-over-year so a
correction along the way is a natural
event
hopefully the prices do correct
significantly and then we can have order
that is restored that's very important
and remember at this point essentially
none of this has to do with interest
rates yet nobody's had to refinance with
all their interest rates and everything
else so think about that this has
nothing to do with interest rates yet
and yet that is the primary key
indicator of what will happen with real
estate looking at this x1 toronto sales
vs. listings two points that i want to
make we have formed a chasm in between
the two numbers here of the new listings
in the sales so the new listings had
increased significantly while also the
sales had increased however both have
dropped both have dropped quite a bit
here so we're seeing that as being one
of the primary indicators to note that
there is a change in the markets we
don't know what that means ultimately at
this point you you'll be able to look
back a few months down the road and sort
of gauge it however at this time we're
seeing a little bit of a change that's
occurring within the real estate market
in Toronto Vancouver downturn - now
here's what I wanted to get into you
don't hear this on other channels I
don't know why you don't hear this on
YouTube you don't hear in the mainstream
media but I'm going to talk to you about
it today Vancouver downturn - so they're
talking about 50% foreign buyer stocks
and was implemented within BC that was
supposedly to push away all those
foreign buyers and get the prices to
stop being so heated and I've covered
more about the Vancouver have covered
more about Toronto and how this all work
how to be pushed up how the real estate
agents are taking people to basically
literally knock on doors one after the
other in the desired neighborhoods and
offer them a significantly higher value
than what their home currently is at and
people walk because they're getting such
such a significant increase over the
current value of their home that's
pushing the prices up you also have
assignments that are taking place that
are not very normal I mean that the
assignment is are supposed to be small
percentages that you would make as a
real estate agent where you can do these
or not even a realtor but but anybody
could make small amounts of money on
assignments you'd be able to take that
and make some money off that but now
people are making a living just off of
assignments okay so this is what's
happening right 50% buyers tax they also
did so in Toronto all right so think
about this for a moment where you're
looking at the real estate prices rising
very high they impose new taxes in these
provinces and you're looking at it from
a different angle now Ontario BC both
implemented it so therefore prices will
come down right well no and I'll tell
you why yes thank
as prices came down a little bit they
went back up what happened no idea why
this isn't being covered and why it's
not from page news of the real estate
sectors here a real estate ad has
surfaced in Hong Kong promising to cover
Ontario's recently implemented foreign
buyers tax and a rent guarantee of up to
one year for the first 30 buyers of
units in a downtown Toronto condo
building the buyers or the builders
excuse me the real estate companies
everybody involved in these markets now
has an incentive to pay these fees that
people are incurring that's what's going
on this will never come down in the way
that they're doing this because somebody
is there to foot the bill oh you're
going to get taxed don't worry
I'll pay that for you will you buy the
house now yes no problem they'll
continue to sell it they don't care but
interest rates that's the key
nobody can sustain these interest rates
because that whole market is running on
the fact that interest rates have been
historic lows this will crash when
interest rates rise the trend is going
in that direction in the US and in
Canada let's just say they bring it up
to 3% all of a sudden we have some
foreclosures we have some bank owned
properties happening we have people that
have - basically their homes become
unaffordable what's going to happen well
you will then have a general lagging in
the economy as well because everything
about these people's wealth is in their
home they don't have actual wealth they
have debt on their home they use their
homes as a bank and they're pulling the
equity out there's no equity there so
everybody is going to be underwater
not everybody but a large percentage of
people are going to be underwater when
this hits interest rates are going to do
it they pull away
a they decide to reverse course on
interest rates go right to the bottom
again maybe go negative the price has
become literally unaffordable I mean you
know if it's 2 or 3 million dollars for
every home nobody's buying it nobody's
buying it and you will have a very big
problem if people become a renters
nobody's going to be saving money you're
going to have an issue that is
impossible to deal with so eventually it
has to break somewhere and it could be
interest rates interest rates don't
necessarily you know they can control it
to a certain degree but they have to
print money in order to do so and that
of course causes inflation so they're
sort of trapped right now that's all for
this video I hope that you found it
interesting especially the fact that
they're not covering nowhere seems to be
covering the real data then what's going
on behind the scenes so that's why I
hope you appreciate the money GPS very
much if you found it informative give me
a thumbs up last but not least if you
found the video informative I know you
will find my books
Kimani GPS and my new release global
economic collapse even more informative
you can flip through these books at
Amazon links are in the description
below in the first book again stands for
asset classes which includes real estate
I talk about how to profit from these
talk about the four different ways that
real estate earns you income people
don't know that and in my new book I
talk about familiar topics but I also
get into things like earning income tax
incentives reducing your monthly
expenses solar panels on your home
things like this so definitely check
those out at Amazon take care